# CS_340_Client_Server_Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

By using an OOP approach to writing code, we can create reusable classes that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable. Creating the CRUD Python module for this project exemplifies this. By creating a CRUD module that interfaces with a MongoDB database via PyMongo, this module could be reused for any kind of MongoDB database operations we might need simple CRUD actions for in the future. In connecting the dashboard widgets to the database, the CRUD module and its methods were the cornerstone of forming the queries that changed the widgets and showed us our most useful information.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I try to analyze the problem at hand and come up with a step by step plan on how to tackle it, breaking it down into smaller pieces. This class was my first foray into MongoDB and NoSQL databases, so that was a new concept to tackle. The MVC model has been discussed in previous classes, but this was the first time I created each part of it and saw how they interact with each other. This class made me appreciate the separation of the model, view, and controller for these types of programs. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

At its most basic definition, computer scientists help solve problems. They do this by utilizing the power of computers, software, automation, etc. which are obviously ubiquitous these days. They are usually not "reinventing the wheel" and doing something that has perhaps never been done, but they are using algorithms and computing power to maybe make a tedious task more efficient, or improve upon the solution to a problem in some way. In the example of Grazioso Salvare, we as computer scientists were only able to work with the data that was provided to us by the company. This means the company already had access to this data, and in theory, could achieve their goals with said data by themselves, but it would be tedious and inefficient. Through the use of computer science and thoughtful problem-solving, we were able to take that raw data provided to us and turn it into something useful, helping the company easily sort and visualize the data, leading to a decrease in time wasted, which leads to them being able to spend more of their energy focusing on the real tasks they set out to do, such as training animals for rescue operations.
